# Attend & Review a Workshop in Philadelphia
October 15, 2024

On September 26th, I attended the session “Intro to Zine-making and Bookbinding” through the Soapbox Community Printshop and Zine Library. I was very unfamiliar with zines coming into the workshop, with my only interaction being with some of Penn’s clubs who produce zines. The workshop leader taught me that zines are any form of small-scale home-printed publications that can come in any length, size, or layout. The printshop had a zine library where I was able to get experience with real zines produced in West Philadelphia. The workshop leader got into zines because they wrote comics professionally and the skills of zine making naturally followed. 
We made several kinds of zines over the course of two hours. The first was a very simple single sheet of 8.5 by 11” standard printer paper that was folded and cut in the middle to produce a small 8-page booklet. This type is easily reproducible as it can be printed at home and made very cheaply. It is too small to hold a lot of information, but a simple message would be able to be easily conveyed. Along this same route is the slightly more artistic than functional accordion style zine, which is just folded back and forth. We got into more complex zines as well. A simple diptych zine with three staples in the middle was the most familiar to me and seemed to be the best style for function and design. Higher class zines are stitched, and we learned two different styles of stitched bindings. This was more like bookbinding. The first design was a simple three stitches in the middle of folded pages—exactly like the stapled one. The most complex was a Japanese stitched bookbinding which was an elaborate weaving of thread through sheets of paper of whatever thickness to create an elaborate and strong edge. 
I came into the workshop with very little knowledge of zines or why bookbinding and zine making was a useful skill, and through conversations with the other participants and the workshop leader, I was able to get a better sense of its importance. Zines are the go-to method for small creatives, especially in West Philadelphia. They allow for the dissemination of information whether it’s political or creative or otherwise. This format of publication relates to our class in the way it resists digitization and datafication. The style of binding is not captured when you put its content online. You certainly could put the workshop leader’s comics on a website, but you would miss the artisanship that goes into the stitching which holds the pages and thus the story together. So many of these zines are being produced by so many people at such a small scale that the publishing of all the zines in the zine library at the printshop would take forever, even though they have only a small amount compared to what is produced just locally. 
There is also the matter of community and experience which is not shared online. The printshop as a community is an important aspect of the stories and messages the zines are trying to share. Most of these artists are not big names, and many have no desire to be professional zine makers. Instead, their intentions and reasons to be come from having a community around the printshop and venues like it to share ideas and have a creative space to make material personally meaningful. No archive or library will ever be able to capture that experiential factor which adds the soul to the zines. 
